Doc processing cellstatistics (#6121)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: docs/user_manual/processing_algs/qgis/rasteranalysis.rst

      :local:
      :depth: 1

.. _qgiscellstatistics:

Cell statistics |316|
---------------------

> The Cell statistics algorithm computes a value for each 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Combines multiple raster layers into one and computes a value for each 
```
- no "this algorithm..." at the beginning
- and the alg does not just output stats; it also creates the raster, right?

cell of the output raster. At each cell location, the 
output value is defined as a function of all overlaid 
cell values of the input rasters.

By default, a NoData cell in ANY of the input layers will result in a
NoData cell in the output raster.
If the :guilabel:`Ignore NoData values` option is checked,
then NoData inputs will be ignored in the statistic calculation. This
may result in NoData output for locations where all cells are NoData.

> The :guilabel:`reference layer` parameter specifies an existing raster layer to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Reference layer` parameter specifies an existing raster layer to
```

use as a reference when creating the output raster.
The output raster will have the same extent, CRS, and pixel dimensions
as this layer.

**Calculation details:**
Input raster layers that do not match the cell size of the reference 
raster layer will be resampled using ``nearest neighbor resampling``. 
The output raster data type will be set to the most complex 
data type present in the input datasets except when using the 
functions ``Mean`` and ``Standard deviation`` (data type is always ``Float32``) 
or ``Count`` and ``Variety`` (data type is always ``Int32``).

> - ``Count``: The count statistic will always result in the number of cells without NoData values at the current cell location.
> 
> - ``Median``: If the number of input layers is even, the median will be calculated as the arithmetic mean of the two middle values of the ordered cell input values.
> 
> - ``Minority/Majority``: If no unique minority or majority could be found, the result is NoData, except all input cell values are equal.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``Count``: The count statistic will always result in the number of cells
  without NoData values at the current cell location.
- ``Median``: If the number of input layers is even, the median will be calculated
  as the arithmetic mean of the two middle values of the ordered cell input values.
- ``Minority/Majority``: If no unique minority or majority could be found,
  the result is NoData, except all input cell values are equal.
```
shorten lines

.. figure:: img/cellstatistics_mean.png
  :align: center

>   Example for the cell statistics operation ``mean`` on three input rasters,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Example for the cell statistics operation ``mean`` on two input rasters,
```
Ican only see two input rasters, but the values in the output raster indicates that on input raster is missing.

Reviewer: Everything looks good to me here: I see three inputs and a mean result layer

Author: @havatv is there an issue with the PNG file? It displays 3 input rasters.

Reviewer 2: > @havatv is there an issue with the PNG file? It displays 3 input rasters.

Today I see three input rasters when I use "View" (not so the last time- strange...)

>   taking NoData cells (grey) into account. Raster data is based on `ESRI Cell statistics example. <https://pro.arcgis.com/en/pro-app/tool-reference/spatial-analyst/how-cell-statistics-works.htm>`_

Reviewer 2: It eould be nice if we could avoid citing other, competing GIS software...

Reviewer: @root676 maybe could we use another stat and rasters?

Author: @DelazJ you are right, I'll rework the example.

   
  

Parameters
..........

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 20 20 40

   * - Label
     - Name
     - Type
     - Description
   * - **Input layers**
     - ``INPUT``
     - [multipleLayers]
     - Input raster layers
   * - **Statistic**
     - ``STATISTIC``
     - [enumeration]

>        Default: 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion

       Default: 0
```

use as a reference when creating the output raster.
The output raster will have the same extent, CRS, and pixel dimensions
as this layer.

**Calculation details:**
Input raster layers that do not match the cell size of the reference
raster layer will be resampled using ``nearest neighbor resampling``.
The output raster data type will be set to the most complex
data type present in the input datasets except when using the
functions ``Mean``, ``Standard deviation`` and ``Variance`` (data type is always
``Float32``or ``Float64`` depending on input float type) or ``Count``
and ``Variety`` (data type is always ``Int32``).

- ``Count``: The count statistic will always result in the number of cells
  without NoData values at the current cell location.

- ``Median``: If the number of input layers is even, the median will be
  calculated as the arithmetic mean of the two middle values of the ordered cell input values.

- ``Minority/Majority``: If no unique minority or majority could be found,
  the result is NoData, except all input cell values are equal.

.. figure:: img/cell_statistics_all_stats.png
  :align: center

>   Example for all statistic functions while taking NoData cells (grey) into account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Example with all the statistic functions. ``NoData`` cells (grey) are taken into account.
```

>   Example with all the statistic functions.``NoData`` cells (grey) are taken into account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Example with all the statistic functions. ``NoData`` cells (grey) are taken into account.
```

       Default: True
     - Calculate statistics also for all cells stacks, ignoring NoData occurrence.
   * - **Reference layer**
     - ``REF_LAYER``
     - [raster]
     - The reference layer to create the output layer
       from (extent, CRS, pixel dimensions)
   * - **Output no data value**

       Optional
     - ``OUTPUT_NO_DATA_VALUE``
     - [number]

       Default: -9999.0
     - Value to use for nodata in the output layer
   * - **Output layer**
     - ``OUTPUT``
     - [same as input]
     - Specification of the output raster. One of:

       * Save to a Temporary File
       * Save to File...

       The file encoding can also be changed here.

Outputs
.......

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1
  :widths: 20 20 20 40

  * - Label
    - Name
    - Type
    - Description
  * - **CRS authority identifier**
    - ``CRS_AUTHID``
    - [crs]
    - The coordinate reference system of the output raster layer
  * - **Extent**
    - ``EXTENT``
    - [extent]
    - The spatial extent of the output raster layer
  * - **Height in pixels**
    - ``HEIGHT_IN_PIXELS``
    - [integer]
    - The height in pixels of the output raster layer
  * - **Output raster**
    - ``OUTPUT``

>     - [same as input]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [raster]
```
"same as input" is used if the output may vary depending on the input. Eg if you can enter line, or polygon and in output you get line or polygon respectively. Here, there's no doubt you get raster as output.
